.TH darkice 1 "November 20, 2007" "DarkIce" "DarkIce live audio streamer"
.SH NAME
darkice \- an icecast / shoutcast live audio streamer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B darkice
[options] -c config.file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
DarkIce as a live audio streamer. It records audio from an audio interface (e.g. sound card), encodes it and sends it to a streaming server.
DarkIce can record from:

    * OSS audio devices
    * ALSA audio devices
    * Solaris audio interface
    * Jack sources
    * PulseAudio sources

DarkIce can encode in the following formats:

    * mp3 - using the lame library
    * mp2 - using the twolame library
    * Ogg Vorbis
    * Ogg Opus
    * AAC - using the faac library
    * AAC HEv2 - using the libaacplus (3GPP reference code)

DarkIce can send the encoded stream to the following streaming servers:

    * ShoutCast
    * IceCast 1.3.x and 2.x
    * Darwin Streaming Server

Darkice runs on the following operating systems:

    * FreeBSD
    * Linux on intel and PowerPC
    * MacOS X
    * NetBSD / OpenBSD
    * SUN Solaris

.B DarkIce
uses
.SM POSIX
real-time scheduling to keep up with sound card input.
.SM POSIX
real-time scheduling is only available if the program is run as root.
Therefore it is recommended that
.B DarkIce
is run as root.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-c " config.file
Specifies what configuration file to use.
If not specified, /etc/darkice.cfg will be used.

.TP
.BI "\-v " n
Sets the verbosity level, between 0 and 10. 0 is silent, 10 is loud.
Defaults to 1.

.TP
.BI "\-h "
Prints the help page and exits.


.SH BUGS
.PP
Lots of bugs.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
darkice.cfg(5)


.SH AUTHOR
Akos Maroy
.I <darkeye@tyrell.hu>


.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Developed with contributions by

    Jim Crilly, <JCrilly@MSA.com>
    aNa|0Gue, <analogue@glop.org>
    Robin P. Blanchard, <Robin_Blanchard@gactr.uga.edu>
    Tom Gray, <tomg@future-i.com>
    Michael Smith, <msmith@labyrinth.net.au>
    Julius O. Smith, <jos@ccrma.stanford.edu>
    the OSALP team, http://osalp.sourceforge.net
    Kristjan G. Bjarnason <kgb@gangverk.is>
    Nicu Pavel <npavel@ituner.com>
    Kai Krakow <kai@kaishome.de>
    Atsuhiko Yamanaka <ymnk@jcraft.com>
    Ricardo Galli <gallir@uib.es>
    John Hay <jhay@icomtek.csir.co.za>
    Christian Forster <forster@like.e-technik.uni-erlangen.de>
    John Deeny <taqueso@dilapidated.org>
    Robert Lunnon <bobl@optushome.com.au>
    Enrico Ardizzoni <craken@users.sourceforge.net>
    Deti Fliegl <deti@fliegl.de>
    Nicholas J. Humfrey <njh@ecs.soton.ac.uk>
    Joel Ebel <jbebel@ncsu.edu>
    <jochen2@users.sourceforge.net>
    Alexander Vlasov <zulu@galaradio.com>
    Mariusz Mazur <mmazur@kernel.pl>
    dsk <derrick@csociety.org>
    Clyde Stubbs <clyde@htsoft.com>
    Jens Maurer <Jens.Maurer@gmx.net>
    Elod Horvath <elod@itfais.com>
    Pierre Souchay <pierre@souchay.net>
    Daniel Hazelbaker <daniel@highdesertchurch.com>
    Alessandro Beretta <alessandro.baretta@radiomaria.org>
    Roland Hermans <roland.hermans@omroepvenray.nl>
    Rafael Diniz <rafael@riseup.net>
  
.SH LINKS
Project homepage:
.I http://code.google.com/p/darkice/

.B IceCast
homepage:
.I http://www.icecast.org/

.B ShoutCast
homepage:
.I http://www.shoutcast.com/

.B Darwin Streaming Server
homepage:
.I http://developer.apple.com/darwin/projects/streaming/

.B Lame
homepage:
.I http://www.mp3dev.org/mp3/

.B TwoLame
homepage:
.I http://www.twolame.org/

.B Ogg Vorbis
homepage:
.I http://www.xiph.org/ogg/vorbis/

.B Ogg Opus
homepage
.I http://www.opus-codec.org/

.B faac
homepage:
.I http://www.audiocoding.com/

.B libaacplus
homepage:
.I http://tipok.org.ua/node/17

.B DarkSnow
GTK front-end:
.I http://darksnow.radiolivre.org/index.en.html
written by Rafael Diniz
